Detecting Organic Molecules Elsewhere in the Universe

ABSTRACT
The detection of organic molecules elsewhere in the universe is a popular field of research. 
The results of this research allow further understanding of how life on Earth came to be and if 
it is possible for life to evolve similarly in other extraterrestrial environments. In this work, 
I will discuss the history of organic molecules and how they gave birth to our life-forms, methods of detecting 
extraterrestrial organic molecules and the conditions extraterrestrial environments have on the spontaneity of organic reactions. 

INTRODUCTION
	The universe, as we know it, is never ending and its size is truly unfathomable. Given this, to consider the 
possibility of life elsewhere in our universe does not seem irrational. Ever since the idea of our planet and life-form being 
unique was overthrown eons ago, there has been astronomers and philosophers aiming to find what is out there. The idea of finding 
life elsewhere in the universe seems straight forward, but it is something that is easy in theory and practically impossible in reality. 
The size of the universe is so overwhelming that it is hard to decide where to start our search for life. As technologies have advanced through 
the ages, we have come to find ways of looking at our universe, be it through telescopes or other imaging instruments.  
Astronomers and physicists still had an enormous challenge ahead, even with the amazing technologies they possessed. How can one discover something 
potentially so small in the vastness of space? With billions and billions of possibilities, it would be impossible to find anything. Astronomers and 
physicists had to find life by process of elimination. The kind of life they would then look for was that only similar to Earth’s. This meant that the 
search for planets outside our solar system had to begin once the other habiting planets were ruled out. The analysis of life on Earth then had to take place. 
They needed to understand as much as they could about how life on Earth works for all types of organisms. As a result, the three important factors for a planet 
to have Earth-like life were determined to be: an energy source capable of sustaining life (our sun), a liquid medium (water and oceans) and chemical elements. 
Life on Earth requires chemical elements, more specifically organic molecules. From the biggest animal to the smallest microorganism, we need organic molecules 
and their reactions to survive. A simple example is photosynthesis. A purely organic reaction and in its absence, life would be scarce.
There is no doubt that the other two factors are necessary to sustain life. It is a common fact that on Earth we need sunlight and water to live. In this paper, 
the goal is to determine why, of the three, the presence of organic molecules and their detection elsewhere in the universe is so important. This work will include 
topics such as the theories of the history of organic molecules on Earth, the methods used to detect these crucial prebiotic molecules and, briefly, the conditions 
extraterrestrial environments have on the spontaneity of organic reactions.

